---
title: "Three ways to track your training"
date: 2023-01-03
---

# First: I Love Classic Strongmen
I love black and white pictures of men with massive moustaches lifting strangely-shaped objects in strange looking ways; see [the Bent Press and its return to fashion](https://www.cavemantraining.com/caveman-strength/bent-press-arthur-saxon-eugen-sandow/).
It's always been fashionable to long for older, simpler times and be afraid of what technology will cause humans to be.
In Victorian Britain, for example, there were fears that [the radio would separate and isolate people](https://theconversation.com/the-victorians-had-the-same-concerns-about-technology-as-we-do-60476), with each individual subscribing to their own information feed and no longer connecting physically.

In the heat of the adaption to new technology, it is hard to distinguish reaction from overreaction.
If you need to focus on your training and cut out social media or whatever you feel is draining your attention and time, you need to.
[Socrates' daemon tells him what to do]
I use a paper notebook, a [modified bullet journalling approach] and post-its.

For anything long-term, a long-term view is necessary and there's only so much an A5 spiral-bound notebook can show.
Where I've used it is in the field of sport. My sport has no defined seasons, rather there are events on roughly a two-month basis throughout the year.

1. Start to finish - I've already started, I can only really see about five years into the future. Start from what you want, work backwards from there.
2. 
combined with a ten-week training block and a yearly competitive calendar.

Every action carries a benefit and every choice a cost. While writing in a notebook may be the best form of retaining information, it's not easily synced with the cloud and can be heartbreaking if you lose several months' worth of notes in a nightclub in Lisbon.
All 
